
		    Analyzing the impacts of various factors on fuel consumption 
	One aspect that plays an incredible role in the daily lives of people around the world is transportation. Its importance in economics, international trade, monetary policy, and the fundamental principles of supply and demand are the driving factors towards a prosperous economy. Despite its necessity for basic consumption and overall growth of an economy, transportation leads to the immense oil consumption which has been increasing sharply every year. According to the U.S Energy Information Administration, transportation accounts for 77% of domestic oil use. Additionally, the petroleum consumption from U.S. light-duty vehicles creates 1.3 Gt of Carbon dioxide each year, accounting for about 5 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions [IEA, 2009]. This percentage along with others raises concern towards human involvement in global climate change. With the advancement of technology, people in today’s society have the capability and resources to reduce the fuel consumption of automobiles. There are many ways to achieve this including manufacturers switching towards advanced hybrid vehicles, transitioning to low-carbon fuels, or reducing the size and weight of vehicles. This statistical study analyzes the main impacts of various factors on fuel consumption.
	In carrying out this study, we will use the Auto MPG Data Set which was acquired from the StatLib library. The data concerns city-cycle fuel consumption in miles per gallon, to be predicted in terms of 3 multivalued discrete variables (cylinders, model year, origin), 1 categorical variable (car name) and 4 continuous attributes (displacement, horsepower, weight, acceleration). This collected data contains missing values, so we will discuss methods in order to correct them. We will also consider descriptive statistics and unusual observations such as leverages and outliers, check error assumptions, and observe factors including a constant variance, normality, and correlated errors. Since there are more than two independent variable values, we propose to compare different variables by using analysis of variance (ANOVA). In addition, we will conduct the Pearson correlation coefficient which indicates how closely an individual point clings to a commonline and whether it covaries in the same direction or in opposite directions. We will also use linear regression to create a mathematical relationship (slope) of the best-fit line. Furthermore we will examine correlations of each variable to see which have a general propensity to drive the outcome variable, and then perform stepwise analysis to understand which variables independently associate with the outcome and their relative impact. Moreover, we propose to compare different models of the data set to determine the one that most accurately illustrates the relationship between fuel consumption and the predictors. These outcomes may result in a causation relationship in which we can implement different ideas into the automobile industry, or an independent relationship of the variables that have no direct effect. In conclusion, it is our goal to use the correlation between fuel consumption and other factors to improve automobiles that are more fuel efficient to protect the environment.
